hi I'm Steve Jones ethic Pro and direct
sales coordinator here at scarp in North
America and today I'm gonna show you how
to mold your Scarpa intuition liners so
the tools that we're gonna need for the
molding process today is going to be our
intuition boot heater and our intuition
fit kit which involves a couple pairs of
stockings and your toe caps before we we
get started with the the molding process
what we're going to need to do is warm
up our boot heater we have fairly basic
controls on it we have an eight minute
warm-up setting and then the 12 minute
thermo moldable setting and pretty much
this will scroll through either eight
minutes or twelve minutes and the warm
up setting warms this heater up to 40
degrees centigrade or 104 degrees
Fahrenheit
and the thermal molding temperature is
going to be 119 Celsius and 246 degrees
Fahrenheit and when you adjust your time
going back and forth between the two you
also want to make sure that the light on
the heat is set up to the appropriate
setting so right now we're showing the
warm up light is on and move it over to
the thermo molding and once that's all
set if we needed to we can adjust the
time by going up or or going down
inversely with the with the setting and
once it's all set you just hit the start
button and then it goes now that the
boot heater is warming up this is a good
time to prepare your boots for the
molding process so you want to make sure
every single button buckle is undone and
you want to check that the inside of the
liner is completely empty because quite
often there's going to be materials from
the gear manufacturer that is going to
be left behind and make sure that the
insoles are taken out of the boots so
now if the boots are opened up the shell
is in walk mode so you can get it really
nice and open
we're going to place our boots onto our
boot heater so during this process you
want to slide the boots onto the heater
following the curve of the tube and see
that it's set on there properly and that
the tongue on the liner is not too wide
open just so it traps all the heat in
there and we're not losing any Heat now
that the boots are on the boot heater
we're gonna go ahead and set the time
for 12 minutes of thermo molding and
make sure that the heat setting is on
the thermal mold setting and we're gonna
go ahead and start this guy up so now
that we have the boots on the boot
heater
this is a great time to dress the
customers foot you have about 12 minutes
to do this
so no big rush so we're going to take
one of the fit kit stockings and if you
can put your foot up on top of my knee
here and roll your cuff up for me slip
this guy on make sure there's no
wrinkles or creases on that gonna grab
one of the toe caps and make sure it's
oriented in the proper direction they
are asymmetrical and grab the second
stocking put it on top of the toe cap
this is just to hold everything in place
now these toe caps definitely something
we recommend using because what they're
gonna do is provide a little pocket of
wiggle room for your toes in the front
of the liner and it's also gonna create
a little pocket of warm air so your toes
are going to stay much warmer so the
boots have just finished their 12 minute
molding process what we're gonna do is
pull one of these boots off so we could
get it on the customers foot and we're
gonna add two minutes to the heating
machine so the other boot doesn't cool
down too much okay the boot is coming
off the heater we've had it on for 12
minutes
it's feeling nice and soft just want to
maybe stick your hand inside the liner
make sure it's not too warm for your
customers foot and if you're going to be
using an insole or a custom orthotic
this is the time you're going to want to
put it in
and you're gonna want to move fairly
quickly just so you don't let the liners
cool down too fast and you're gonna want
to open up the tongue as far as it'll go
put the cuff in to walk mode to open up
that upper cuff and just make it as easy
as possible for your customer to just
slip their foot right inside of the
shell right so now we're gonna want to
get the tongue back on make sure
everything is aligned properly you
really want to take extra care to take a
look at the the tongue of the liner here
because this is where things can get
buggered up nice tight seal with the
liner on the upper cuff and it's usually
a good idea to get the power strap on
first and that will help to pull the
shell together
so when buckling the boots this is where
you really want to take some extra care
and attention because this is gonna
determine your final fit of the liner
when it's when it solidifies if you have
a low volume foot you really want to
take up a lot of volume in that boot so
you want the buckles to be loose just
barely buckled because you want to keep
that liner as a fully expanded as you
possibly can and if you have a high
volume foot you're really gonna want to
take these buckles and crank them down
pretty tight just to compress the liner
as much as you can and leave as much
room inside of the boot as possible now
that we've got the first boot on Chinese
feet we're gonna take the second one off
and get this one going as well alright
now that she knees feet are in his boots
we're gonna have him step up onto our
incline board feet are gonna be
shoulder-width apart and you're gonna be
focusing your weight down through your
heels
this way we're gonna create a nice deep
heel pocket and the liners and when the
boots are locked down the heels are
going to really stay put if you don't
have an incline board you can use
something like a broomstick handle a 2x4
or whatever you happen
readily available and when you're
standing up on this board you really
don't want to move around too much
because the more you move around the
more volume you're creating in those
liners so it's best to just stay in your
skier stance remain still and you're
gonna hang out for about 10 minutes now
that the ten minute molding process is
complete what we normally like to do is
pull off the stockings and toe caps and
have the customer put on their regular
ski socks and try the boots on just to
make sure that the mold went properly so
go ahead and slip those on so now that
as boots are all buckled up you can have
the customer stand up and go ahead and
and flex the boots you could do it in
ski mode you could do it in walk mode
just to make sure that there's no hot
spots that there's no rubbing any
potential spots for blisters or bruising